[[!meta title="Installing onto a USB stick or SD card"]]

We recommend using <span class="application">Tails Installer</span> to
install Tails on a USB stick.

<div class="tip">

<p>Using <span class="application">Tails Installer</span> allows you to
later [[create a persistent volume|persistence]] in the free space
left on the device.</p>

</div>

<div class="note">

<p><span class="application">Tails Installer</span> can only install Tails on a
USB stick or SD card of <strong>at least 4 GB</strong>.</p>

</div>

<div class="note">

<p>Tails requires a dedicated USB stick or SD card. It is impossible to add
another operating system or partition on the same device if you want to benefit
from [[automatic upgrades|upgrade]] or create a [[persistent encrypted volume|persistence]].</p>

</div>

<span class="application">Tails Installer</span> is available from inside Tails and on
Debian-based distributions.
So you either need to start Tails from a first media, and later clone it onto the device of
your choice, USB stick or SD card or install the tails-installer package.

Use Tails Installer within Tails
--------------------------------

1. Get a first Tails running. To do so you can either:

   - Start Tails from a [[Tails DVD|dvd]] (recommended).
   - Start Tails from another Tails USB stick or SD card, for example from a
     friend.
   - [[Manually install Tails onto another USB or SD card|installation/manual]]
     and start *Tails Installer* from it.

2. From within Tails, choose
   <span class="menuchoice">
     <span class="guimenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guisubmenu">Tails</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guimenuitem">Tails Installer</span>
   </span>
   to start <span class="application">Tails Installer</span>.

   From within another Debian based distribution, you can find Tails Installer
   in the list of applications.

3. To install onto a new device, click on the <span class="button">Install by
   cloning</span> button.

4. Plug the device onto which you want to install Tails.

   A new device, which corresponds to the USB stick or SD card, appears in the
   <span class="guilabel">Target Device</span> drop-down list.

5. Choose this new device from the <span class="guilabel">Target Device</span>
   drop-down list.

   <div class="caution">

   <ul>
   <li><strong>All the data on the installed device will be
   lost.</strong></li>
   <li><strong>This operation does not [[securely
   delete|encryption_and_privacy/secure_deletion]] the lost data on the
   installed device.</strong></li>
   <li><strong>This operation does not copy the persistent volume of the
   device which is being cloned.</strong></li>
   </ul>

   </div>

6. To start the installation, click on the <span
   class="button">Install Tails</span> button.

7. Read the warning message in the pop-up window. Click on the <span
   class="button">Yes</span> button to confirm.

Use Tails Installer within another Debian based distribution
------------------------------------------------------------

1. Install <span class="application">Tails Installer</span> on a Debian based
   distribution, either:
   - using the command line: <pre>apt-get install tails-installer</pre>, or
   - using your preferred installation method, i.e. launch Synaptic.

2. You can find Tails Installer in the list of applications. Launch it.

3. To install onto a new device, click on the <span class="button">Install</span>
   button.

4. Plug the device onto which you want to install Tails.

   A new device, which corresponds to the USB stick or SD card, appears in the
   <span class="guilabel">Target Device</span> drop-down list.

5. Choose this new device from the <span class="guilabel">Target Device</span>
   drop-down list.

   <div class="caution">

   <ul>
   <li><strong>All the data on the installed device will be
   lost.</strong></li>
   <li><strong>This operation does not [[securely
   delete|encryption_and_privacy/secure_deletion]] the lost data on the
   installed device.</strong></li>
   <li><strong>This operation does not copy the persistent volume of the
   device which is being cloned.</strong></li>
   </ul>

   </div>

6. To start the installation, click on the <span
   class="button">Install</span> button.

7. Read the warning message in the pop-up window. Click on the <span
   class="button">Yes</span> button to confirm.

<div class="next">

<p>After the installation completes, you can [[start Tails|start_tails]]
from this new device.</p>

</div>
