[[!meta title="TⒶILS does not start"]]

If TⒶILS does not start properly, refer first to the [[known
issues|/support/known_issues]] page. Similar issues might have already
been reported for the same model of computer.

Otherwise refer to the following sections, depending on whether or not
the [[boot menu|/doc/first_steps/startup_options#boot_menu]] appears
when starting TⒶILS:

[[!toc]]

<a id="at_all"></a>

TⒶILS does not start at all
---------------------------

The following section applies if the [[boot
menu|/doc/first_steps/startup_options#boot_menu]] does not appear when
starting TⒶILS.

Refer to the instructions on how to [[start TⒶILS|doc/first_steps/start_tails]], especially the
section about BIOS settings.

If none of this works, [[send us an email|/support/talk]] including the following information:

0. Which version of TⒶILS are you trying to start?

0. Did you [[verify the ISO image|download#verify]]?

1. Which is the brand, and model of the computer?

2. What exactly happens when trying to start? Report the complete error
   message that appears on the screen, if any.

3. From which media are you trying to start TⒶILS: DVD, USB stick
   [[installed manually|doc/first_steps/installation/manual]], USB
   stick [[installed with TⒶILS
   Installer|doc/first_steps/installation]], SD card?  Keep in mind
   that, we do not support any other installation method than the ones
   listed above.

4. Have you been able to start TⒶILS successfully on this computer
   before, from another media, or with another version of TⒶILS?
   If so, which ones?

5. Does the same media start successfully on other computers?

6. Have you been able to start TⒶILS successfully on the same computer
   using different installation methods? For example, it might start from a
   DVD but not from a USB stick.

7. What installation method did you use to set up TⒶILS?

<a id="entirely"></a>

TⒶILS does not start entirely
-----------------------------

The following section applies if the [[boot
menu|/doc/first_steps/startup_options#boot_menu]] appears but not
[[TⒶILS Greeter|/doc/first_steps/startup_options/#tails_greeter]] when
starting TⒶILS.

1. In the graphical boot menu, press `TAB`.

2. Remove the `quiet` option from the boot command line.

3. Add the `debug` and `nosplash` option.

4. Hopefully, this displays useful messages while starting TⒶILS. You can
   then include them in a bug report to be sent:

   - either using [[WhisperBack|/doc/first_steps/bug_reporting]] if you
     are able to start TⒶILS from another media,
   - either by [[sending us an email|/support/talk]]

5. If the error message is `/bin/sh: can't access tty; job control
   turned off` followed by `(initramfs)`, then try removing the
   `live-media=removable` option.

   <div class="caution">

   <strong>When removing this option, if an adversary installed a fake
   TⒶILS on an internal hard disk, then you will likely be starting
   this dangerous operating system instead of the genuine TⒶILS that
   you intended to use.</strong>

   </div>

   If removing `live-media=removable` allows you to start TⒶILS, please
   report a bug as documented above: this allows us to improve the [[list
   of problematic USB sticks|support/known_issues#problematic-usb-sticks]].
   In this case, you should install TⒶILS on another, better supported
   USB stick.
