[[!meta title="Agenda for the next contributors meeting"]]

[[Official place and date are in the calendar.|contribute/calendar]]

Availability and plans for the next weeks
=========================================

  - Volunteers to handle "[Hole in the roof](https://labs.riseup.net/code/versions/198)" tickets this month
  - Availability and plans for monthly low-hanging fruits meeting

Discussions
===========

 - [[!tails_ticket 5684 desc="Screen locker"]]
 - [[!tails_ticket 7061 desc="Random hostname option needed on startup"]] and [Let's share username, /etc/hostname and /etc/host among all anonymity distributions](https://mailman.boum.org/pipermail/tails-dev/2014-August/006736.html)
 - [[!tails_ticket 7419 desc="Rename Tor Browser in camouflage mode?"]]
 - [[!tails_ticket 8125 desc="Host the Tor Browser tarballs we need ourselves"]]
 - [[!tails_ticket 8174 desc="Build Tor with seccomp"]]
 - [[!tails_ticket 8236	desc="Greeter revamp: Decide between 'play' and 'computer' logo for Start button"]]
