Create an encrypted persistent storage (optional)
=================================================

<div class="step-image">[[!img install/inc/infography/create-persistence.png link="no"]]</div>

[[!inline pages="install/inc/steps/create_persistence_intro.inline" raw="yes"]]

<div class="caution">

<p>The encrypted persistent storage is not hidden. An attacker in possession of
the USB stick can know whether it has an encrypted persistent storage. Take into consideration
that you can be forced or tricked to give out its passphrase.</p>

</div>

<div class="caution">

<p>It is possible to
open the encrypted persistent storage from other operating systems, but it might break
your security.
Other operating systems should probably not be trusted to handle
sensitive information or leave no trace.</p>

</div>

Create the persistent storage
-----------------------------

1. Choose
   <span class="menuchoice">
     <span class="guimenu">Applications</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guisubmenu">Tails</span>&nbsp;▸
     <span class="guimenuitem">Configure persistent volume</span></span>.

[[!inline pages="install/inc/steps/create_persistence_creation.inline" raw="yes"]]

   We recommend you to only activate the <span class="guilabel">Personal
   Data</span> persistence feature for the time being. You
   can activate more features later on according to your needs.

5. Click <span class="button">Save</span>.

   <div class="step-image">[[!img install/inc/infography/restart-on-tails.png link="no"]]</div>

Restart and activate the persistent storage
-------------------------------------------

1. Shut down the computer and restart on the
   <span class="windows linux mac-usb">final</span>
   <span class="clone">new</span>
   Tails USB stick.

1. In <span class="application">Tails Greeter</span>:

   [[!img install/inc/screenshots/greeter_with_persistence.png class="screenshot" link="no"]]

   - Select your preferred language in the drop-down list on the bottom
     left of the screen.
   - In the <span class="guilabel">Use persistence?</span> section,
     choose <span class="guilabel">Yes</span> to activate the encrypted
     persistent storage for the current working session.
   - Enter the passphrase of the persistent volume in the
     <span class="guilabel">Passphrase</span> text box.</span>
   - Click <span class="button">Login</span>.

1. After 15&ndash;30 seconds, the Tails desktop appears.

1. You can now save your personal files and working documents in the
<span class="guilabel">Persistent</span> folder. To open the
<span class="guilabel">Persistent</span> folder choose
<span class="menuchoice">
  <span class="guimenu">Places</span>&nbsp;▸
  <span class="guimenuitem">Persistent</span></span>.

<div class="state-image debian expert">[[!img install/inc/infography/tails-usb-with-persistence.png link="no"]]</div>
<div class="state-image windows linux mac-usb clone">[[!img install/inc/infography/final-tails-with-persistence.png link="no"]]</div>
<div class="state-image mac-dvd">[[!img install/inc/infography/tails-usb-with-persistence.png link="no"]]</div>

<div class="trophy" id="recommendations">

<p>You now have a working Tails, congrats!</p>

<h3>Final recommendations</h3>

<div class="row">

  <div class="col-md-6">

    [[!img lib/admon-caution.png link="no"]]

    <p>Tails does not protect you from everything! Have a look at our
    [[warnings|doc/about/warning]].</p>

  </div>

  <div class="col-md-6">

    [[!img lib/help-browser.png link="no"]]

    <p>If you face any problem, use the <span class="guilabel">Report an
    error</span> launcher on the Tails desktop or visit our [[support
    pages|support]].</p>

  </div>

</div>

<p>We hope you enjoy using Tails :)</p>

</div>
