This is from my Tor log. I've highlighted odd entries. 

(wth is Heartbeat for a client?)

(OpenSSL version is from 2010? wth?)

(What is it with the 'censors to block' mesg?)

[notice] Tor 0.2.3.22-rc (git-4a0c70a817797420) opening log file.

[notice] Parsing GEOIP file /usr/share/tor/geoip.

*[notice] No AES engine found; using AES_* functions.*

*[notice] This version of OpenSSL has a slow implementation of counter mode; not using it.*

[notice] OpenSSL OpenSSL 0.9.8o 01 Jun 2010 looks like version 0.9.8m or later; I will try SSL_OP to enable renegotiation

[notice] Reloaded microdescriptor cache.  Found 0 descriptors.

[notice] I learned some more directory information, but not enough to build a circuit: We have no usable consensus.

[notice] New control connection opened.

[notice] New control connection opened.

[notice] Bootstrapped 5%: Connecting to directory server.

*[notice] Heartbeat: Tor's uptime is 0:00 hours, with 1 circuits open. I've sent 0 kB and received 0 kB.*

[notice] Bootstrapped 10%: Finishing handshake with directory server.

*[notice] We weren't able to find support for all of the TLS ciphersuites that we wanted to advertise. This won't hurt security, but it might make your Tor (if run as a client) more easy for censors to block.*

*[notice] To correct this, use a more recent OpenSSL, built without disabling any secure ciphers or features.*

[notice] Bootstrapped 15%: Establishing an encrypted directory connection.

[notice] Bootstrapped 20%: Asking for networkstatus consensus.

[notice] I learned some more directory information, but not enough to build a circuit: We have no usable consensus.

[notice] Bootstrapped 40%: Loading authority key certs.

[notice] Bootstrapped 45%: Asking for relay descriptors.

*[notice] I learned some more directory information, but not enough to build a circuit: We have only 0/2867 usable microdescriptors.*

[notice] We now have enough directory information to build circuits.

[notice] Bootstrapped 80%: Connecting to the Tor network.

[notice] Bootstrapped 85%: Finishing handshake with first hop.

[notice] Bootstrapped 90%: Establishing a Tor circuit.

[notice] Tor has successfully opened a circuit. Looks like client functionality is working.

[notice] Bootstrapped 100%: Done.
