In a previous thread in this forum,

      https://tails.boum.org/forum/Who_carries_half_of_all_Tor_traffic__63____38_operators/

I listed 38 domains which carried just over half of all Tor traffice in mid-Februrary 2013.

As of mid-March 2013, just over half of all Tor traffic is carried by just 41 domains:

     B/W 	Nodes	Domain
     234560	15	torservers.net
     98054	13	ccc.de
     63419	30	snydernet.net
     59478	7	conformal.com	
     51676	9	teamcymru.net
     48487	8	formlessnetworking.net
     38395	34	perfect-privacy.com
     36454	13	ntnu.no
     35000	3	dfri.se
     32292	2	kromyon.net
     31390	3	torland.is
     30738	4	voxility.net
     29046	1	axigy.net
     25778	1	glasoperator.nl
     23147	2	ph3x.at
     21996	3	privacyfoundation.dk
     21267	1	nordu.net
     18576	4	noisetor.net
     14427	4	torproject.org
     13574	2	ucar.edu
     12176	1	solidonenetworks.com
     11969	4	62.113.250.0/24 (23media.de)
     10983	1	spacedump.net
     10662	5	ipredator.se
     10443	1	bu.edu
     10309	1	r3t.at
     9247	9	hosteurope.de
     8780	2	cypherpunks.to
     8580	4	onlinehome-server.info
     7978	1	sabotage.org
     7961	1	mooo.se
     7885	1	guilhem.org
     7647	2	sec.nl
     6697	1	Freedom (GB)
     6614	1	my.littlecorner.org
     6437	1	abuse.li
     6279	3	net.ua
     6135	1	lobstertech.com
     6060	1	pm-ib.de
     5898	1	saitis.net
     5420	1	pomaz.hu

Most of these domains are familiar from the earlier thread.  As previously discussed, some are known to be engaged in surveillance of the Tor network.  Some are considered "friendly" (for example, formlessnetworking.net seems to have ties to the author of Torbutton, and kromyon.net seems to have ties to Access Now, the open access advocacy group cofounded by the recently and tragically matyred Aaron Swartz.)  There are also a few newcomers to the roster of big bandwidth tor nodes.  

The national breakdown is similar to last months results.  As before, the 41 domains appear to correspond to distinct entities with perhaps a handful of overlaps.  In one case domain registration information was unknown, which is why a numerical IP range is used instead.

But there is one novelty which seems noteworthy.

Would it surprise anyone here to learn that *at least one of these 41 organizations is known to operate at least one Predator B drone?* 

(And yes, I really do mean the notorious Predator B drone manufactured by General Atomics, which has been the workhorse of the notorious drone remotely targeted assasinations conducted by the USA inside Pakistan, Yemen, Afghanistan, North Africa, and according to Attorney General Holder, in future, should the President deem it "convenient", inside the USA itself.)

If this revelation shocks anyone, *this is a claim which I can support*, and fully intend to support, *by citing on-line documents*.  

These documents are public, which will show that this intriguing factoid about the big bandwidth operators of the Tor network is not secret, but is even public knowledge.

However, I think it will be fun and instructive to invite readers to try to guess (or to independently determine) the identity of the organization in question.  For now I'll just say it is one of the those listed above.  

Bonus points for anyone who can guess or find out what this organization *says* it plans to do with this drone!

Attention reporters: it seems that our factoid has not yet been noticed by Spencer Ackerman (of Wired "Threat Level"), Glenn Greenwald of the Guardian, the ACLU, EFF, EPIC, Privacy International, or other organizations tracking the drone strike issue.

(I tried to provide links to some recent news stories on the drone issue, but the forum software robocensored my post.)
