Attempt to trace me - My life endangered

I had captured a video of some goons of land mafia (who were encroaching upon the lands of labour and downtrodden people) and murder those who object to it. Yesterday I shot the video in which one of the goons belonging to land mafias murdered on the sport an innocent person objecting to the encroachment in the presence of Land and Revenue Officials who later left the scene of crime after leaving the dead body behind.

I used TAILS and uploaded the video for public view on Facebook Profile (which doesn’t have my own IP address or any friend) with a view to encourage the people to build pressure on the Government. Within one day my video was shared by 15000+ people due to which it grabbed the eyeballs of the media which spread the news in the whole state. Today I realized that the goons and land mafia actually belonged to and were under secret protection of the Deputy Chief Minister of my state. He directed the police to trace the person (me) who uploaded the video so that the action against the real criminals may be taken with my help to identity them, whereas the real intention of the Dy.Chief Minister is to get me traced and eliminate me secretly because this video has exposed how the land mafia kills the people in broad daylight. I, therefore, tried to remove the Facebook video today through TAILS but Facebook asked me to confirm the account with my mobile/cellphone number which I didn’t want to. Hence the video still exists and is being shared while I am unable to remove it.

Now one of the following 2 things is possible:

1.	They will trace me and prosecute me under the draconian sections/laws on the ground that I didn’t handover the video to the police and uploaded the same on the social networking site and thus I suppressed the crime. (The reality is that if I had gone to the police, I would have been eliminated on the same day because a lot of money is paid regularly every month to the police and the police department of my country is the most corrupt department in the whole world according to a recent survey.

OR

2.	They will officially trace me (with the help of corrupt police) and eliminate me. In my country life and liberty of an individual is not respected though many laws exist in letters.

I was using TAILS to maintain that Facebook profile since its inception. On 19/1/2013 my erstwhile ISP blocked the access to TAILS due to which I had to subscribe to another connection of different ISP on 25/1/2013. But in the meanwhile, I had accessed the Facebook by configuring one https proxy of Ukraine (after relying on the anonymity report of this website: incloack.com), and later started using TAILS again from the new connection. I didn’t logged into that profile in between 26 January 2013 to 12/February /2013 and used it with TAILS only yesterday.

Can I be traced and is my life really endangered? Kindly suggest ASAP so that I may send my parents, wife and kids to their maternal home for safety of their lives.
