Several days ago, I turned off the TOR button in the system tray and wondered why the internet remained so slow. I went to browserspy.dk and clicked on geolocation in the left hand column. 'Geolocation was supported in browser'. I was shocked. I spent several days researching what browsers do not have geolocation. 

Iceweasel, like SeaMonkey and Firefox, has geolocation enabled. Why use any of them in a privacy CD? Why not use Konqueror or Epiphany which do not have geolocation? Gentoo uses Midori which I do not know if has geolocation. 

Knoppix has several preinstalled browsers: Konqueror, Epiphany, etc. I recommend giving us a choice by preinstalling a browser that does not have geolocation.

Yesterday, I read a review on Tails which explained that turning off the TOR button in the system tray does not turn off TOR. https://lwn.net/Articles/440279/.  That was why the internet remained slow. The article explained that turning off the TOR button enabled geolocation. I highly recommend renaming the button to "geolocation." Therefore, today I tried Tails again. With the TOR button enabled, I returned to browerspy.dk and clicked on geolocation. "Geolocation was supported in browser." Does this mean that geolocation discloses my real location?

Today, I searched for the term geolocation in Tails Walk Through manual. There was no discussion on geolocation. There needs to be a warning that turning offf the TOR button enables geolocation. 

I am a domestic violence victim. My abuser hired a computer hacker to cyberstalk me. Privacy is vital to my survival. 
