1. In order to modify torrc while using Tails 0.17.1, is it neccessary to set up a root password when first booting Tails?  When I try to edit torrc using Vidalia controller "Settings", I get an error message.  Can I edit it directly by making a root shell and editing torrc in /etc/tor ?

I've been reading "Changing of the Guards" but don't agree with the authors' conclusions, and think we need the freedom to influence the behaviour of our own Tor client as needed.

My understanding is that currently, the Tor client initially chooses three entry guards and uses one of them for all circuits (for some time).  I understand the rationale for that policy but disagree about the trustworthiness of certain nodes which have been endowed with the Guard flag.

I am concerned about a particular Tor node which in my opinion should NEVER be allowed to act as both an Entry node and Exit node.  It seems that whenever I try to post a forum, this node is *always* the one which jumps in and takes over the circuit as Entry node, which I consider suspicious.  And I just can't get the tor client to use one of the other Entry nodes when I try to post.  Do you know anything about this?

2. In Tails 0.17.1 Vidalia, is "New Identity" disabled?

     https://tails.boum.org/todo/disable_Vidalia_new_identity_feature/

I think it isn't, but if so this doesn't fix the problem with the suspicious Entry node.

Does that todo entry reflect security concerns about the Vidalia controller?  (Stem may offer a more flexible and powerful alternative.)
