Since "the West" introduced a new series of "three strikes" anti-piracy laws and since the fast Akamai Tor nodes were introduced late last year, I have noticed with much increased frequency something which in the past was quite rare, in my experience using both Tails and TBB under Debian stable.

I am concerned about connections to *specific* entry nodes (and even a handful of bridges) which appear to strongly prefer using specific *combinations* of ports, combinations which are associated with known "script kiddie" attacks.

Networking experts will notice that I am talking about *outgoing* connections, whereas the known attacks would be signaled by *incoming* connections using those combinations of ports, so I can see that my concern might not appear to make sense.  But please bear in mind known problems with the Tor controller which are known to affect both Tails 0.15 (and earlier) and the current TBB.  

Again, I am concerned by a pattern of Tor (both Tails and TBB) using "suspicious" entry nodes, with "suspicious" combinations of fairly low numbered ports.  I don't see how this in itself suggests operators of rogue Tor entry nodes are actually mounting thise attacks on my computer, but I am concerned that some bad guys may have figured out how to exploit the controller problems to botnet Tor user's computers in order to possibly attack destination servers.

I stress that I have not yet snagged any packets suggesting that the "suspicious" entry nodes are actually attempting well-known metasploit attacks on either the computers used by Tor users or the destination servers.  (The smoking gun would be capturing packets showing a known attack in progress.)  Even if my fear were valid, because Tails is based on Debian stable, which I believe is immune against common metasploit attacks, Tails users are possibly immune to such attacks.  But my real concern is with the known controller issue, and I am worried that the odd combinations I have seen (associated with some of the same "suspicious" entry nodes already called out in a recent Tor-talk posting by "Torrorist") might somehow be associated with bad guys taking advantage of "testing" scripts to mess with the controller in order to do serious harm.

The odd *combinations* of ports include port 1443 (ms-sql-s) paired with 3050 (gds-db).  Some other ports to watch for are 1645 (datametrics), 1812 (radius), 1813 (radius-acct), 137 (netbios-ns), 138 (netbios-dgm), 139 (netbios-ssn), and 4444 (krb524), especially in combination with other ports reserved for services exploited by popular attacks.  Of course some of these things *might* be associated with something going wrong with how my router interacts with my ISP's gateway, but I don't really see how that suggestion makes sense.

Yes, I know that Tor uses not very high numbered ports and even tends to walk through them sequentially, but until recently, in my experience, it was quite rare to see *combinations* of ports which are associated with well known attacks.

If Tails or a networking expert can explain why my concern is unfounded, please do so.  Simply mocking such concerns would by contrast tend to suggest that "they" don't want us to ask certain questions.  Good explanations could help us perenially worried Tor users (not a bad habit, really) to better investigate and resolve such concerns ourselves.  And it is always possible that if Tails users are allowed to ask questions about things they have noticed which worry them, on occasion a genuine problem might come to light.
