I want to make sure that Tails developers know about a legal development which I fear has negative implications for the further development of Tails, and I beg for permission to discuss it here, or at least to disclose it here.

Kim Zetter of Wired "Threat Level" has just posted a story about an ominous new legal strategy being pursued by certain portions of the US Federal government.  This strategy seeks to establish a new principle in US law (which has implications for coders worldwide).

It may soon be a U.S. federal crime to write software which *could* be used to do something which *might* be "illegal" under some US law:

    http://www.wired.com/threatlevel/2013/01/coder-charged-for-gambling-software/

A particularly obnoxious aspect of this prosecution is the fact that most (all?) U.S. States operate their own huge "legal" gambling operations, with the stated goal of bringing in much-needed revenue.  And this is only one of many current news stories which suggest that U.S. government regards itself as being above not only international law, but even above U.S. law (there are several other stories illustrating this in the most recent Wired "Threat Level").

Another strange aspect of such initiatives is that they show how some portions of the U.S. government actually conspire to trick/subvert other portions in order to pursue their power-grabbing ambitions.

I have previously requested and have been denied the opportunity to try to discuss another ominous legal strategy being pursued by the FBI and its allies, which seeks to outlaw cryptography which *might* be used for something which *might* be "illegal" under some US law.

In both cases, according to reporters employed by such media outlets as the New York Times and the Wall Street Journal, their sources suggest that the real purpose of these initiatives is to prosecute people like Jacob Appelbaum (security researcher at large for the Tor Project) and to shut down Tor.

The U.S. Federal government has been hounding Appelbaum for years, yet has so far failed to actually imprison him for more than six hours at a time, but you'd have to be an idiot not to see that some in the U.S. government clearly wish to put away Tor developers, whistleblowers, and open-source "hackers" who write things like jail-breaking or peer-to-peer software.

FBI officials including Shawn Henry (who recently retired to form his own anti-hacker company) have testified before the U.S. Congress and have also written op-eds supporting the anti-cryptography initiative, but to date no details have been published.   This initiative, like so many others, is allegedly being negotiated in secret, and I fear that some version is likely to be enacted as a hurried and easily overlooked "rider" to bills intended to address the U.S. fiscal/debt crisis, which may be passed in hurried midnight sessions before members have had a chance to review these bills.  Several versions have already been rejected due to lobbying from the telecoms and ISPs, which don't want to be stuck with the cost of a law telling them to figure out how to backdoor all the cryptography used by all their customers (which would be difficult to accomplish in end-to-end GPG encrypted emails unless the ISPs hire third parties to trojan *all* their own customers, which I doubt many of them really wish to do).

Please be aware that some of my posts providing links on not-entirely-technical issues directly impacting Tor have generally been held for moderation and were not published.  So I request interested persons to use their favorite search engines; stories about the latest crypto wars will be hard but not impossible to find.

The anti-software bill suggests that the FBI and other U.S. secret police agencies are now pursuing multiple strategies which seek to subvert Tor.

Why have the U.S. legislative and U.S. judicial branches been too frightened to challenge assertions of obviously unconstitutional powers by the executive branch?  The history of secret police worldwide, and some almost-buried stories concerning semi-overt threats by the NSA against prominent US officials in other branches, suggests an answer: congresspersons and judges are as subject to NSA dragnet surveillance as anyone else.  That might seem to be a good thing, but there's a problem: due to the complexity of U.S. law, it is said by many lawyers, most U.S. citizens unknowingly violate some federal law every day, no matter how hard they may try to be "law-abiding citizens".  And when secret police agencies have complete knowledge of the entire financial, communication, travel, familial, and medical histories of every citizen, they have endless opportunities to uncover "dirt" which can be used to intimidate any citizen, even seemingly "powerful" Washington insiders.

But perhaps new stories are the wrong place to look.  In every age and in every place, brave artists have drawn attention to unpleasant truths which others fear to notice or express.  Let us recall possibly the most famous lines in American literature:

> "But suppose there isn't anything to find?"

>  And the Boss said: "There is always something."

>  And I said: "Maybe not on the Judge".

>  And he said: "Man is conceived in sin and born in corruption and he passeth from the stink of the diddie to the stench of the shroud.  There is always something."

I hope all Tor users will keep an eye on how these initiatives develop by watching for relevant news stories.  (Wired "Threat Level" is probably about a good a place as any to watch, but also watch for stories in The Register.  The EFF and ACLU blogs are also good places to check.)  Maybe some of us will even dare to attempt some grass-roots lobbying of our own. by asking our own legislatures to write letters to the U.S. Congress expressing international concern and condemnation of these American legislative initiatives.
