CYBEROM FIREWALL BLOCKING US!

Sirs,

We are a group of whistleblowers working in the mining sector. As you know there are a lot of instances of corruption, illegal activities and human rights violation to which the higher officials indulge in as a matter of routine, we had formed an association of certain whisteblowers to apprise the public in general and human right organisations of the human rights violations of the downtrodden, bonded labourers and child labourers who are not even given two times meal a day, not to speak of giving them monthly remuneration! Due to our hidden but dedicated efforts that went on successfully in curbing the menace to a large extent (all thanks to Tails and TOR networks), a nationwide protest followed against the mine owners and mafia due to which many bonded labourers were got freed.

As the companies knew that only the people working for them (insiders) could leak the sensitive information about the things going on behind the four walls of the areas, to the outside world, they have set up a networking department and implemented a system called CYBEROM firewall due to which we have become helpless because both TAILS and TOR don’t work/run on any computer.

In order to access the internet, we have to use our username and password (allotted to us by the NETWORKING DEPARTMENT). This firewall doesn’t allow any proxy, TOR and Tails. Even if we succeed in getting the dummy firewall account (with username and password), yet TOR will not work after logging into that firewalled dummy account.

How it works: 
(1)	When we start computer, we have to go to network properties/settings to fill in (feed) some IP addresses, eg.. my computer has IP address 192.168.41.88. Another friend deployed in another building has IP address of 192.168.57.29. (here the internal IP parts “41” and “57” denote the building code; and the parts 88 and 29 show the computer code.) So if we send any email to anyone (without TOR or Tails which don’t run), the email header shows the following IP address: “192.168.41.88 [115.118.47.22 ISP’s external IP address]”
(2)	So you see, they have installed this firewall to trace or find out the person who blows the whistle against their illegal activities and illegal utilization of natural resources for personal use.


Kindly give us solution to use TAILS or TOR on such firewalled network.

If any person has any way out or technique to bypass this firewall, kindly tell us about that.

Thanking you in anticipaton,
Mc Peterson.


