Any risk if we don’t share anything worth sniffing by the last node?

I have observed that most of the questions and queries in this forum revolve around the dangers that sniffing by the last node poses. But most of the social activists don’t share anything worthwhile for which one needs to sniff their data, though they want to maintain secrecy from the government of their own country. I am the General Secretary of a Human Rights Protection forum and 3 of our members were shot dead by unknown persons by the police in fake encounters. In one of such case, the police officers were later found guilty of fake encounter and therefore punished to undergo life imprisonment. But punishment to the responsible officer at the instance of a Chief Minister doesn’t bring the dead back to life. Thereafter we started dispensed with our forum and started exposing the human rights violation by sending mails to the opposition parties. And thus we embarked upon the journey towards learning all about anonymity. Tails helped a lot because we needed nothing more to learn except putting our CDs into the CD-Rom Drive and opening yahoo website.

Recently I delivered a lecture to the new members, who have joined us, on how to burn TAILS iso file onto CD or USB and how Tails work. During the feedback, some of the members asked me a few questions about which I could not find any suitable reply (or say, I could not understand) from the forum.

1.  Most of the discussions revolve around sniffing by the last node. Okay, let’s assume that the last node is sniffing our traffic. But how can the person sniffing at the last node harm us if he becomes aware of the complaint and pictures of child and bonded labourers being sent against our Govt.? Why someone from US or Ireland etc. be interested to know about us? We need protection from our governmental ministers and not from hackers or sniffers. Kindly explain.

2. The question arises that the Govt. can SECRETLY ask the diplomats staying abroad in different countries to secretly find out the details of the sender of such complaint to media and opposition or revolutionary groups. How can we protect from it?

3. In our country, one Law “Government Secrecy Act” is applicable and owing to its provisions we can’t expose the government without valid proof. How can we complain to the govt. which itself is violating all the norms? So we need protection from Govt. and not from other countries.

4. Should we spoof our browser fingerprints and useragent? (One member who was going through all the posts from this forum to learn more about TAILS came across something in this regard.) Fire Grove addon of Firefox changes browser fingerprints every time we refresh the website.

5. If we use a https proxy before the first node according to the method discussed in a post, will it preserve the encrypted transmission in the next 3 nodes?

Even if this https proxy is of hacker, I don’t think that he can cause us harm because he will not be aware of what we are sharing with other members of our group.
Suppose last one (3rd node)  is a sniffer/hacker, he will not know where the traffic has come from. He will be aware of the IP address of the 2nd node.

6. Let’s assume that we used yahoo, sent email and logged off OR we used fake Facebook profile without any genuine information and in the meanwhile no one sniffed us. Next day Media highlights our complaint and pictures and the Govt. is criticized. The someone from the govt. or a businessman running mafia wants to spend money to trace us to protect his business and investment. This is where we need your help to understand the techniques. The govt. will complain to the Police that someone has violated the Official Secrecy (which is a criminal offence in our oppressive regime) and must be booked. Of course such leakage in public interest is not a crime, but the stage to prove it will arise after 10-12 years because in our country the court cases end after 10-12 years on an average. The govt. will do it just to trace us legally with the help of other countries and then to eliminate us or pressurize us into saying that we circulated false information. Here the ISPs of all the countries (countries of node1, 2 and 3) will go on giving IP address information where the traffic came from and logged.

Please give us as much information as you can because this post will be read by the people of the age group ranging from 30 to 65. 

Your guidance will help us getting many bonded labourers released if we succeed in our mission. In this 21st century, still the human bondage prevails at many underground locations where the people have not seen the sun light for years. Thanking you in anticipation.

