...or you will be disappointed.

There are few answers on tor-talk from devs already. All tor devs said they are not interested in forum communication.

The tor forum may get a paid support assistance. You can ask simple questions and will be helped. Thats only stuff which they learned from the docs and some training. No people with background knowledge in theory of anonymity networks will discuss with the mass of the uninformed.

Let me make an example. You work as a scientist with other scientist discussing higher math, quantum mechanics, unified theory, rocket science. Whats your interest in going into details of your work with people who just learned basic arithmetic operations who want to make suggestions about things they have no clue about?

In case you really want to learn something and to make helpful suggestions to the leading experts [Free Haven's Selected Papers in Anonymity](http://freehaven.net/anonbib/) is for you. Its a good place to start not the only thing you have to learn.

Make a little background check on people knowing about Tor. Make an example. Roger Dingledine. He wrote more then 20 papers listed in [Free Haven's Selected Papers in Anonymity](http://freehaven.net/anonbib/) and who knows what else. Paul Syverson also wrote 20 papers. I bet they read and understand most of those papers.

These are the kind of people who understand something about Tor and those who talk to each other and working on making it better.

How many of that serious stuff did you read?

No one here cares to read it. More then 10 pages? TL;DR?

Sorry, you have no clue and are in no position to suggest improvements for Tor. Want to change? [Free Haven's Selected Papers in Anonymity](http://freehaven.net/anonbib/) is for you.

Just saying. Discussing these things on tor-talk is a waste of time. Discussing it in forums is bigger waste of time. Why Am I telling you?

Please do something constructive instead. Use your time effective. I am only sharing this because it breaks my heart seeing so much potential improving real things wasted here on clueless discussions.
