I have found an under-the-radar way to install the latest DownThemAll! download manager (version 2.0.13) in the extentions for Iceweasel.  The install happens prior to going live on the network as I turn off my router when booting the TAILS Live USB. 

After turning my router on the browser launched and in conjunction with verifying that Tor was established in the original Tab, in another Tab it visited the DownThemAll! website (i.e. extension first run) as it does when initially installed in Firefox, so it appears to be properly installed in Iceweasel.  Note: the extension only does this behaviour once per installation of a newer version.

I suspect that since the second Tab happened concurrently with the first Tab (verifying Tor), that it did not use the facilities of Tor to establish its first run in the browser after installation - thus breaking anonymity.  I could also be wrong about this, so correct me if you know otherwise.

Normally, with Firefox when I do not use TAILS, I save the profile daily after every online session, and reboot in a Live USB environment every day with the saved Firefox profile.  The behaviour of DownThemAll! is such that it only visits the home website once upon installation of a newer version. So, presumably, the installed profile can be saved in a preserved state via the persistence feature in TAILS.

I suspect that the developers can be contacted about this problem and hopefully they would cooperate to add a user option to turn off this feature or advise a way to circumvent it.  I will look into this after I have looked at the code for the extension to see if I can modify its behaviour in this regard.

One idea I have is that perhaps it is better to install the extension normally after Tor has been verified - but, even then I have my doubts whether it would use Tor on its installation visit to its home website as currently constructed (I suspect the website is hardcoded).  I suspect that the installation default visit to the DownThemAll! website is the only place where anonymity is broken and that Tor would be its only way to download otherwise from a connection point of view, but, I do not know enough yet to be able to prove it.

How would you further test it to determine if it is suitable for inclusion in the TAILS Iceweasel browser  to ascertain that it safely downloads using Tor without breaking anonymity?  Just looking for a bit of advice/guidance from you folks in order to help out.

I am doing this because DownThemAll! is a very solid download manager (and fast) for Firefox which I have been using for years and it holds a very strong connection to complete the downloads once it starts - i.e. it has both Resume and Multiple connection  capabilites.  

The current procedure of - Saving a Link as - is a very poor download performer and often requires multiple tries from the start which never seems to complete the file download.
