Friends, I have got a very highbandwidth internet connection in the corporate with this configuration which I have to feed into the network settings:

192.168.15.37
255.255.255.0
000000

0000000
0000000

After feeding those 5 kinds of IP addresses into network settings of Windows-7, I can run the internet connection under Cyberoam firewall connection.

It is completely secure and I have read the Exit Policy rules of the TOR.

1. Give me complete procedure to configure the TOR to start exit node for everyone. Currently firewall is blocking me. Should I use bridge and ofscure proxy before it?

2. Give me complete configuration (step by step) so that I may host highbandwidth Exit node within the next few hours.

3. Also tell me, if TOR will maintain the log whether I have maintained a highbandwidth Exit in a corporate computer?

Kindly post complete configuration setting so that before leaving the office I configure it and inform all the IP address of the exit which you can use.

Will my Exit be available for all? As we have got dedicated leased lines with high bandwidth, its IP must not be blocked by any site, and I have not going to pay anything from my pocket for the bandwidth you all use to bypass internet censorship.


UPDATE:
********
I just sent an email to self and the header info is showing my IP as: 192.168.15.37 {00.00.00.00 corporate static IP).

192.168.15.37 is an internal IP address and we can change the last part of the IP adress in between 7 to 253.

So after making an Exit node, if you send an email, will your email header show the same IP in the same manner (i.e. as 192.168.15.37 {155.xxx.xxx.xxx), or will it be somewhat different?

