Well, I use Tails (and Tor in windows) already longer time, and more I read, more I get opinion that torproject is connected with civilian or millitary intelligence of USA.

first, I see that tails is part of Tor project, and therefore I write here (tor site has no forum in any case). 

second, I saw that Tor is created by American Navy (you know those little dirty colonialists who make war for oil although they speak they make war to protect human rights). Here is quote from tor site: Tor was originally designed, implemented, and deployed as a third-generation onion routing project of the U.S. Naval Research Laboratory. - What is U.S. Naval Research Laboratory if not department which is connected with American military intelligence?

Third, I saw somewhere on TorProject site (possibly in announcements or similar) they mentioned Iran in negative context, and for me it is sign for alarm (about spies who are paid to make war propaganda) because as I said, human rights are misused to justify wars (Serbia was bombarded after propaganda about breaking of human rights in Kosovo, Libya was the same case and if you ask colonialists soldiers in Afghanistan and Iraq, they will say they are there to help to oppressed people - wikileaks published how many civilians died from western bombs and killing of civilians is terrorism, so, the truth is that they killed oppressed people, in the name of profit for western oil corporations). So, sign for alarm means for me that there are people who work for western political polices (spies) who are mixed in NGOs, human rights movement, etc, all of them speak about situation in Iran but not about situation in Saudi Arabia and other western allies. any idiot can see that Saudis collaborate with American oil business while Iran (and Venezuela) kicked out American corporations and therefore there is propaganda against countries which are not good for western corporations. Tor is obviously part of this war propaganda because TorProject never mention Saudi Arabia (and other western allies) but they have full mouth of Iran. Turn yourself and find Iranian women near to you, they are dressed like Europeans, find Saudi women and you will see they are much more under influence of Islam habits, there is NO political opposition in Saudi Arabia (clear dictatorship) and there is opposition in Iran, and so on. But I don't want to list details of difference between different countries, before it was war propaganda about Iraq, today it is Iran, one day in the future it will be Venezuela. Spies who are paid by political police repeat phrases of their government, they spread propaganda to convince people that war is the only solution and people should not protest against war. That's the aim of war propaganda, to prepare public for war and to keep people at home instead to protest against war. It would be nice that developers become independent from war propaganda and that they mention even America about breaking of human rights (you can say for example that Tor is very good for Afroamerican and Latinoamerican communities in USA because these communities are under repression and discriminated by cops and judges in USA). ahhh, torusers page even glorify American justice system, even antiwar movement was totally under repression and spied by FBI and even pacifist martin luther king was killed in front of spying eyes of FBI: The EFF maintains a good overview of how anonymity was crucial to the founding of the United States. Anonymity is recognized by US courts as a fundamental and important right.

So, American Navy + typical western propaganda against countries which are not good for western corporations + glorifying of American racist court system, question is: how much we can believe to developers of the whole torproject (including tails)? Are developers spies who work for FBI/CIA/military intelligence? can we believe to tor network and its independence from overtaking it by spies? is there any need to overtake anything/network if core developers are spies? Is there any similar anonymity network people could use, which is not developed by American military? I just met myself with cypherpunk onioncat today, so, I will check if they are similar like tor network. i2p2 is not so good as I know.

the fact is that most of us are not professional programmers and even opensource code doesn't mean that we can check if Tor is really so secure as developers say it. whole tor hidden service was attacked by hackers who said they are Anonymous (I would say they are FBI rats because Anonymous are political hacktivists and Anonymous are not interested to attack weed sites from hidden wiki). so, how much is tor network really secured from hackers if they can attack whole server as they did with Freedom Hosting and the rest of the hidden wiki?

Last tendency of developers is to collaborate with governments and its repressive forces (from docs/faq-abuse pages): The Tor Project is also happy to work with everyone including law enforcement groups to train them how to use the Tor software to safely conduct investigations or anonymized activities online. 
