Sometimes we have to configure some applications like yahoo messenger and other instant messengers or browsers with TOR, but we want to know some fool-proof method to know as to where our outgoing traffic is going and whether the application is currently routing the whole traffic through TOR or not.

When I configure any application, I reply on freeway tools like cports or PROCESS HACKER or PROCESS EXPLORER to see where my application is connected. Is it an authentic way to do the same?

1. Please give us some method to check all that. Most of the social activists are not well versed in techniques.

2. Why TOR or TAILS doesn't maintain connection to 4 or 5 nodes instead of just 3 nodes? I think that creating something to route the data through 4 or 5 nodes of different countries will be more secure because it will more likely to be 100% anonymous over internet.

3. Today someone suggested me to your a new TOR/TAILS based application called "AdvOR" or "AdvTOR" or "Advanced Onion Routing" which routes our all internet traffic to any number of nodes (subject to maximum of 10 nodes and that too all belonging to different countries). But since this AdvOR is not certified by your, nor by TOR, we can't rely on that because we can not believe in their claims unless duly recommended by your team. What's your take on it? If they can give us an option to set any number of nodes to route our traffic, why can't you do the same? You are doing a lot of hard work to ensure  security of life and liberty to social activists and we want something more and more secure.

4. We have to use many addons on Firefox while using "TAils" and "TOR"; how can we know which addon is safe and doesn't reveal our real IP address?

The problem with TAILS is that it is based on linux which we generally do not use because we are using Windows operating system since our childhood.

Kindly discuss in detail as all the users of TAILS and TOR are supposed to read this thread. Discuss more and more in this thread (post).

5. Facebook has started blocking the profiles of users who are using TOR/TAILS due to constant change in IP address. They compel the users to verify their profiles with cellphone numbers which we can not do because giving cellphone number means giving each and every verified details of ours to facebook and we can be traced easily within a few minutes.

