Humans are damn stupid, that's a fact.
I2P is a great project, at least I thought so. An independent, anonymus and parallel internet where I have not to care much about what I say, what I think and my privacy is protected.

Really interested in the project I started surfing around the i2p net but I found a lot of child pornography (and I really mean a LOT) so I searched deeper and I even found sites dedicated to child pornography and had to shutdown this misused network, I couldn't see more.
I can't believe this, really, I can't. I can't share even one kilobyte of data in this network because it could be part of an immoral image or video of some abused child in some part of the world. I think child pornography MUST be universally immoral, hope you think like me. I will never start i2p again until there will be some kind of countermeasure against this phenomenon, and I can't figure out how it could be possible in such a network.

I think that everyones privacy, need to do something violating the law without being discovered (it HAS not to violate morality) and everything else one can do throught the net is not such important as blocking child pornography, in any case. Do you really think it's more important for you to protect your privacy? Don't you think an eight years old child abused by some animals in front of a camera (no, they're not humans, they're animals) is more important than your damn privacy or what you do in i2p?
I know some people need to protect themselves because of oppressive goverments and many other causes but we have to implement something different, where child pornography cannot have place or at least can be controlled, it has to be a priority.
If you rent an apartment where you can freely talk with some anti-government people and organize something really helpful for your country, would you allow someone to enter this apartment and abuse childs? Wouldn't you search for an alternative way? Wouldn't you try to stop them, to help the children? Actually i2p does something like this, it was born with good purposes but has turned into something wrong and there is no way to control or stop this without stopping the whole net.


Remember, everytime you start i2p you share child pornography material. Maybe you can be innocent in front of the law (not sure about that) but in front of yourself, are you really innocent? You helped the animals getting immoral child pornography materials, you pass this material to them, you are fault.

I'll never start i2p again, what about you?
