There is no point even if Tails wipes the data from the RAM because if you are traced through the IP addresses, then you are gone because it is your IP address which is a conclusive piece of evidence that you were using TAILS. Please note that Tails has no mechanism to set different nodes from 3 different countries, and sometimes the chain is US>>US>>UK. So you see that the first two nodes are in USA in this example and thus your anonymity is of no use. 

Some day that the users should use a webproxy over and above all the 3 nodes. But how does it help anyone? The webproxy server will be aware of the IP address of the third node, and the third nodes knows the second node where the second node knows the first node which has all logs about your real IP address.

Had Tails been a secure system, by now no criminal would have been caught for petty offences. Don't you think that criminals are also aware of existence of Tails, and I am sure that they are got caught after despite using TAILS or Tor or any other anonymous system.

Okay, now assume that you expose some kind of corruption and your adversaries knows you. He, if influential like Govt., can simple get one report filed with the Security agency/Police to trace the origin, and after getting suboena from the courts, all countries will start offering the logs available with them. Afterall, every IP we use is logged somewhere.

Now the governments of many countries are going to adopt a new strategy to nab the whislteblowers! According to this policy, every internet subscriber will be issued a username and password by the ISP which one will have to log onto the software (to be given by the ISP) if he wants to use internet. So everything will be logged everywhere. I hope you understand and stop exposing the governments; let them do whatever they want. Dictatorship regime is about to follow in many countries, it seems - and that too all because of bloody criminals.
