This is probably an easy script but if someone could help me out or point my in the right direction it'd save me a lot of frustration and I'd appreciate it a bunch.

Anyways, Topic:
Portable Linux Apps
Reference Example: 
http://portablelinuxapps.org/ (Main GUI site, categorical)
Download list:
hxxp://www.mirrorservice.org/sites/ftp.sourceforge.net/pub/sourceforge/p/project/po/portable/

I suppose if you knew programming sufficient enough or the proper know-how you could create your own distribution and put whatever apps you see fit on it. But portable apps in the case and use of tails has the advantage of being  hidden/secret and, since they are stand-alone, can keep on you at all times among other things.

If someone/somepeople are motivated enough to make a list or just comment on ones that work on debian tails and which ones don't that'd be cool. 
So yeah, some work, some don't.

A lot of them do, though.
Truecrypt Portable works.
Thunderbird
RedNotebook rednotebook.sourceforge.net (google it for portable linux not on site listed above)

They do need permissions after downloading, such as the file having the need for the option of opening as an executable). You can also apparently create your own with any linux app of your choosing, but I've no experience with such. Here's a good screernshot walkthough of some of this stuff: hxxp://www.makeuseof.com/tag/portable-linux-apps-work-linux-distro/

As of now if say I want RedNotebook on Tails I have it on a USB drive (only one .bin file). It won't open on the USB, so I have to transfer it to the amnesia folder. Then I right click on the file, go to properterties and make the r/w good and executable.
Then can just drag it to the desktop, to the top bar, or just open it from the file manager quick and easy.

Just thought I'd see others opinions on this. Don't necessarily mind the subject, if there is a quick easy shell script or whatever once you have the file to say script it and run it so it switches to chosen location on the menu or bar and they know how to do it hell yes. If not, nbd.. Anyways
opinions on linux portable apps to expand and customize tails?

