I'm just a simple guy here and it seems there's a few others who's just looking for a simple answer as to whether or not connecting to a free wifi hotspot using tails is ok or not. Anything wrong with that? Any added dangers or is it better that way?

Is tails not for practical use or is there no rock solid thing about it like something its made for and can for sure do I guess?? 

Also how can I know how to differentiate on whether to use tails or tor? Which would best fit this situation I guess?

Also if I'm using tails and sending an email by a provider that doesn't know my name or anything, is that ok? I just want to send something not illegal or anything but I just like my privacy I guess. I was thinking as long as I only used that email when using tails on public wifi only then that would be good but I don't know. Like I said, I'm not a techie but I am a thinker I guess.


P.S. I know that there's a documentation but its too long to read and it will take me several trips to the library to read it all and I kind of need an answer now too cause its been too long that I've been frozen like this just wondering if I should or shouldn't. So please excuse me. I will read the documentation but I just need a quick answer for now or some assurance I guess (if only the documentation could be downloaded and read I would do that) I'm just a normal guy who wants to send a simple message to someone etc. but has regards for privacy. Is tails right for me? Is it normal or good to use tails at a free wifi hotspot or whatever and like send an email (maybe with encryption or whatever using my computer to connect? Anything wrong with that? Simply yes or no is good but if no than I'd like to know why and, if so, then why bother using tails?
