
And i say accidentaly but i dont really know if it can also happen not accidentaly but intentionally. For example, lets talk about some scenarios. I am a CIA superspy, right? A super data miner, or a super digital-surveillance golden boy. I have seen how the masses approach to facebook like bees to honey, or like flies to shit. Ok, i am extremely happy. This is the dream of a lifetime. Billions of peoples, the most educated on the planet, automatically and willingly creating by super database of their whole life (fotos, character, friends, biography, preferences, etc., etc.). Amazing. I am a superman now. I feel great.
But! These are the normal peoples, more or less. The hordes of idiots who don't think too much, dont ask too much, generally obey the laws, generally want to live their earthly lives to the full, living the moment, seizing the day, etc. Great. Ok.
But i am an fbi agent, i m not interested in those peoples. I got them in the database in case they do something wrong, but the ones that really interest me are the other ones... the revolutionaries, the outlaws, the thinkers, the free speech ones....  coincidentally there are the peoples that would actually WANT to use something like TOR! Ok, these and the god damned pedos...
So, this is a senario, why not set up a giant honeypot for all these people? Reading about how Tor actually started is not very "reassuring" either. Ok, i got them. I have a super secret way to control all existing nodes and combine all connected IPs worldwide and know everything and anything that goes on in there. In the same time, i create ways of uprising for my enemies peoples in the world, North Korea, Islamic countries, China, etc. 
I dont really care about these sneaky tricks of the US intelligence against these countries to cause them internal social turmoil, i am from Europe actually, i prefer americans over the islamic hordes that want to gradually take over Europe. But i am just wondering about the possibility that the WHOLE thing is a us intelligence scheme.
But the scenario is not complete now, is it? I got the Tor users, the whole bunch. But what about the suspicious ones??? Yep, they are in doubt about Tor anonymity, although they use it.They want something more reassuring, something that speaks of even greater anonymity. A live os just for anonymously connecting to the internet. They will go one step further, search for something more, and they ll find... TAILS! So if Tor is my super secret operation to database those that got away from facebook, Tails is my secret secret opeation to gather round those few that get away from Tor! Thats the senario.... what are your thoughs about it? 
