Hi - hope this helps a few people.  I had problems verifying the latest ISO - usually I use seahorse but for some reason it stopped working on my Linux Mint - in the latest FireFox - when I updated via terminal - it crashed my installation.  Next tried Kleopatra Gpg4win - this was OK but the check generated an unusal message and I needed to make the kEY a trusted certificate - but the extension manual (not well written) did not state how.

This left me having to use my Windows machine and the latest Firefox.  Annoying and frustrating to say the least as the new download manager does not work with the MD5 Rebound Hasher - no 'check details' available in the new download manager.  After several searches found this advise - and it worked.  Therefore, I post it here in the hope this helps others who use windows to verify the ISO to get the verification process working.

1. Open a new tab of FireFox - on Windows machines - which is running the latest FireFox version.

2. Type about:config, in the url field, then press Enter.

3. Paste the following into the search field: browser.download.useToolkitUI

4. Under the Value field, right-click false and then click Toggle. That should set the Value to "true."

5. Restart Firefox. 

This worked for me and I got the old version download manager back and had available the 'check details' option.

Hope this is of some help.  I hope those behind the software (either FireFox or MD5) update so the MD5 is again working in the new download manager.

Winston
