First of all, cheers for the great public service of Tails.

I have beeb working on creating USB keys which can boot several systems as well as have a separate partition for encrypted files. I am happy to report that Multisystem by LiveUSB works very well in Linux for doing this.

The problem is the following. Multisystem creates its own grub2 boot menu from which you can choose the system you want to boot. The system boots correctly but bypasses the menu that allows you to choose languages (or other settings).

Multisystem lets you edit the grub.cfg file. i was able, for example, to add the option truecrypt to the command line so that it installs at startup. Multisystem also gives the possibility of manually editing the code at startup. But I do not understand what setting I need to change to get to the Tails start up prompt for the language settings. I tried changing the locale settings  and even took them out entirely but still the same result (direct boot to English). Probably this is something really simple, but I don't have that much Linux experience.

Below is the grub.cfg file created by Multisystem which has Tails as its first menu entry (it is caling it Debian2 because I previously had another Debian distro above it)

Thanks in advance for any help !

Grub.cfg created by Multisystem to use Tails

	#insmod gpt
	#insmod pc
	#insmod gfxmenu
	#
	#insmod videotest
	insmod tga
	insmod png
	insmod gfxterm
	insmod lspci
	#insmod vbeinfo
	insmod vbe
	insmod ntfs
	insmod chain
	insmod biosdisk
	insmod font
	#http://grub.enbug.org/ThemeFormat
	#http://grub.gibibit.com/Theme_format#colors
	#http://code.google.com/p/burg/wiki/InstallUbuntu
	#http://code.google.com/p/burg/downloads/list
	#http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1195275
	#pour acces a grub2 du bootloader principal modifier dans fichier: /etc/default/grub
	#GRUB_HIDDEN_TIMEOUT=10 #0 par defaut
	#GRUB_HIDDEN_TIMEOUT_QUIET=false #true d'origine
	#sudo update-grub
	#echo -n "Press ESC to see the menu... "
	#if sleep --verbose --interruptible 5 ; then
	#set timeout=0
	#fi
	set default=0
	set timeout=30
	set fallback=1
	search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 2A60-4D2F
	set root=${root}
	#http://grub.enbug.org/gfxterm
	if loadfont /boot/polices/unicode.pf2 ; then
	set gfxmode=640x480
	if terminal_output gfxterm ; then true ; else
	# For backward compatibility with versions of terminal.mod that don't
	# understand terminal_output
	terminal gfxterm
	#set gfxmode=auto
	#set gfxpayload=keep
	fi
	fi
	#set locale_dir=/boot/grub/locale
	#set lang=en
	#insmod gettext
	if background_image /boot/splash/splash.png ; then
	#text no sel/fond ecran
	set color_normal=blue/black #1
	#text sel/fond ecran sel
	set color_highlight=green/white #1
	else
	set menu_color_normal=blue/black #2
	set menu_color_highlight=green/white #2
	set color_normal=blue/magenta #2
	set color_highlight=green/white #2
	fi
	#set gfxpayload="1280x1024,1024x768,800x600,640x480"
	#set gfxpayload=keep
	#Ne supprimez pas ce marqueur! / Do not remove this marker!
	#MULTISYSTEM_START
	#MULTISYSTEM_MENU_DEBUT|08-11-2011-21:36:37-912707866|debian2|multisystem-incognito|579Mio|
	menuentry "tails-i386-0.8.1.iso" {
	linux /debian2/vmlinuz root=UUID=2A60-4D2F live-media-path=/debian2 console-setup/variantcode=oss console-setup/modelcode=pc105 boot=live truecrypt config splash vga=788 
	initrd /debian2/initrd.img
	}

