I have been experimenting with booting Tails 0.16 from DVD (which may offer additional security compared to booting from a USB stick), using an LUKS encrypted volume on a USB stick for persistence.

From the Tails.boum.org home page:

> use the Internet anonymously almost anywhere you go and on any computer: *all connections to the Internet* are forced to go through the Tor network

(My emphasis).  Does that include curl connections?

Using some simple shell scripts using standard Linux system monitoring utilities, I have detected evidence of mysterious curl connections when Tails is starting to two domains:

     htp       <redacted>   00:00:00 curl --user-agent Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 6.1; rv:10.0) Gecko/20100101 Firefox/10.0 --silent --proto =https --tlsv1 --head --output <redacted> --socks5-hostname 127.0.0.1:<redacted> https://www.sony.com

     htp       <redacted>        00:00:00 curl --user-agent Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 6.1; rv:10.0) Gecko/20100101 Firefox/10.0 --silent --proto =https --tlsv1 --head --output <redacted> --socks5-hostname 127.0.0.1:<redacted> https://tachanka.org

The domain tachanka.org appears "friendly", and these connections appear to be intentional by Tails.  But Sony?  *Sony*?   Really, Tails?  What gives?

I see that the connections do appear to be proxied and to be https "connected", by why would it be neccessary for Tails to make a silent initial connection to sony.com?  Please explain.

See also a possibly related disaster for Tor, the Lucky-13 attack which potentially strips all TLS "protection" from Tor circuits:

     arstechnica.com/security/2013/02/lucky-thirteen-attack-snarfs-cookies-protected-by-ssl-encryption/
