@ "Tails":

Regarding improving the documentation for the pidgin IM interface and OTR:

<https://tails.boum.org/todo/better_pidgin_and_otr_documentation/>

I've never used chat.  And in my opinion the pidgin GUI (I mean the... widget?.. which comes up when I click on the purple columbine icon) is apparently not intended to be comprehensible for people who have never used chat.  And the official pidgin documentation didn't help me figure out how to get started.

I see from the todo item that the Tails developers plan to try to improve the documentation at tails.boum.org of how to get started using OTR chat.  

I'd like to help by trying to describe some of the elementary questions I couldn't find answered in the pidgin documentation, and I couldn't figure out by experimenting with the GUI (the ellipses are intended to suggest places where I recognize that I am too new to chat to express myself correctly or clearly):

* It seemed that the intention might be to help Tails users to quickly and simply set up... an account? and to ... join #tails chatroom and... chat?  Is that even approximately correct?
* It seemed that in pidgin as provided by Tails, there might be one or three... preconfigured accounts?   Are those... a generic account I am supposed to be able to use as a "newbie persona"?  Or... the developer's personal account?
* If not, I assume I need to...  create an account (pidgin? jabber? OTR? with an ISP?) in order to... participate in chat rooms?  
* Can I do that ... "anonymously"? without ... paying someone something somehow?  Do I need to choose a... handle?  To create some... cryptographic keys?
* The pidgin documentation seemed to connect me to what looked like... a url ending in .im, so is that an indication that... some protocol (XMPP?) other than http was being used to connect to some server somewhere?  If so, I assume the intention is that this connection is safely torified and even... kept on a different Tor circuit under 0.14 from http traffic?
* I did try to follow the documentation and I tried to coax pidgin into ...creating a key?  But I didn't see anything suggesting this worked
* I tried experimenting with... listing available chat rooms? ... joining chats?  But I saw no indication suggesting this worked
* is OTR something used only for ... sending text messages to a specific chat room persona?  or should I see something like a transcript of conversations between personas?
* If the former, given that I've never used chat and won't know anyone in any chat rooms... I can't send messages to random personas asking them to help a newbie, can I, so what is the socially accepted protocol?
* The step by step explanation for verifying the Tails iso is excellent and I am afraid I might need similar detail for getting started with OTR, which I realize could more challenging since this seems to go through the pidgin GUI, so you can't just write out some commands to paste into a shell.
* Also helpful would be explanation of any indications I should see while using chat that OTR is working properly, is encrypted
* Is OTR something which should be very simple to use under Tails or is it forgivable for a chat newbie to be so confused?

Regarding:

<https://tails.boum.org/support/index.en.html>

    server: irc.oftc.net
    port: 6697
    chatroom: #tails
    use TLS/SSL to connect!

I can see that these are instructions for configuring something, but what?  IRC, pidgin, jabber, OTC... something else entirely?

I was experimenting with 0.14 rc2 but got the same poor results with 0.13

Sorry if this is not the right place or manner in which to make a request for documentation.  I hope it helps someone to understand better what at least one chat newbie found to be insurmountably baffling.

If this makes no sense I guess I will just ask that you do the best you can to improve the pidgin/OTR documentation and I'll try to use whatever you write to figure out all the things I haven't been able to figure out so far.
