Here is a short report and a few comments on running the Electrum lightweight bitcoin client in Tails.

# Quickstart
Download the most recent Electrum *source* tarball from <http://electrum.org/download.html>

open a terminal, go where you saved the archive and unpack it:
> cd /home/amnesia/

> tar xzvf Electrum-1.7.4.tar.gz 

start Electrum with the following command to force it to connect to stepkrav's hidden electrum server using tor as a SOCKS5 proxy
> cd Electrum-1.7.4

> ./electrum -s 56ckl5obj37gypcu.onion:50001:t -p socks5:localhost:9050 

follow the wizard and create a new wallet (or recove your existing one). When asked for the network options disable the "Try random servers if disconnected" option.

The network connection will fail a few times, as tor is a lot slower than what Electrum expects, but the connection will eventually be established.

## Note on persistency
If you want to keep using your wallet I suggest you copy the Electrum code and your wallet (~/.electrum/electrum.dat) to the tails persistent storage. You can then start electrum with the following command:
> ./electrum -s 56ckl5obj37gypcu.onion:50001:t -p socks5:localhost:9050 -w path/to/electrum.dat

# Random toughts on security
Security is hard, very hard.

Be aware that you are downloading software form a website (Electrum) and trusting your money to it. Please check the tarball checksum, at the very least, if you intend to use it.

By using only one server you are putting a certain degree of trust in it not deceiving you. From what I understand the worse that could happen is a malicious server reporting a payment as aknowledged when it is not, but if you are worried you should research the issue (and maybe let us know your conclusions in a comment).  

I do not have a clear idea of how much anonimity you gain by using Electrum behind Tor. On one hand your Electrum wallet will be associated with a random ip address in the bitcoin block chain. On the other hand it is always possible to travel back trough the blockchain and see who send those money to your wallet.

# Aknowledgments 
Thanks to armand from #tails for suggesting me to relax and wait a little for the connection to the server to settle :)
