Hi,

I did try the last Tails 0.16.iso.

Sound is not working, and when i wanna connect to my own
Wifi acces point, it also did not work.

I see a few Wifi acces point's, (also from othere people around) When i wanna connect my own Wifi, it let me connect and after 2 seconds it's disconnect me.


Also sound is not working, i have two options, but can't
get it to work.

Other Linux distro's like LinuxMint work out of the box,
so it seems the problem lies with Tails.


I miss in the Windows environment the "Turn Off Computer button", and the "log-off button". I know this can be done via a different route, but I do not understand why you have chosen for this way. I see people must ask for that solution. The rest of the menu is there and the "Turn Off Computer button" must be done in a different way? Very strange or a mistake? It would be nice if you could fix this in the next release, and out those button s where they belong to sit.


I really wonder whether it would not be better for Tails to implement Tails in some small Linux distrobution and forget this release.

A very big advantage of Linux is that it is better at detecting hardware. For me it's all wrong with Wifi and
sound, and in most Linux version, this works out of the box. And Linux is also Free to use and work on.

Tor and other privacy tools under Linux are also easy to implement.

I think the only benefits would have to start with a new cleam Tails bases on some Linux distro.

I hope you look at a seriously way at my
commentary and see the advantage of that.

In itself Tails is a very nice project, but could be much better. I realize that you have put alot of work into Tails, but somethimes it's better to start clean.

I hope you consider this seriously, and do not criticize
my storie because this is NOT my intion at all.

Sorry for the bad Englisch
