I have following questions the answers whereof are very important for everyone to be known from the security perspective:

1. The default useragent strings of the TOR/Tails browser agent is: Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 6.1; rv:10.0) Gecko/20100101 Firefox/10.0 and this remains the same for everyone. One can check it from: whatsmyuseragent(dot)com

2. On the basis of this useragent and addons installed in the firefox configured to use TOR or TAILS, browser fingerprints are calculated and stored by the ISPs/Websites.
(a) See the website to check your browser fingerprint: 
fingerprint(dot)pet-portal(dot)eu

Your generated identifier is: 2b662a16**********185948f2

(b) Now you can also visit this website to know how unique you are in the users all over the world:
panopticlick(dot)eff(dot)org

My uniqueness is: "one in x browsers have this value"+-=149.81
____________________

I don't know whether every user of TAILS or TOR is having the same fingerprint or it is unique to point to me. If it is unique only in my case (my computer), then it may be a risky thing, and if the fingerprints of all the TAILS/TOR users are one and same like browser useragent, then there is nothing to worry about privacy and security.

In case such browser fingerprints can be against us, then should we spoof the browseragent and thus the fingerprint of the browser?

But another question also arises, whether the TOR nodes ISPs also retain those spoofed/changed browseragent record?
Here are certain useragent spoofing addons (for firefox) that you can use to answer us:
1. User Agent RG v. 1 (This is the best addon according to me)
2. UA Control: (another addon which seems safe too me)

3. FIRE GLOVES - This ADDON CHANGES/SPOOFS YOUR BROWSER FINGERPRINTS and is mostly used worldwide :)

-------

If I configure my browser to use USERAGENT of some other browser compatible with MAC computers (e.g. Mozilla/5.0 (iPad; U; CPU OS 3_2 like Mac OS X; en-us) AppleWebKit/531.21.10 (KHTML, like Gecko) Version/4.0.4 Mobile/7B334b Safari/531.21) through the second addon mentioned above, this useragent will be recorded by all the websites. Suppose you are traced SOMEHOW, then you can take a plea that you don't own a MAC computer and thus it will be a ground of defence for you or say that it will weaken the prosecution theory, isn't it?

But we need TAILS' recommendation before using these addons. Thanks.
