Lets assume you are using tails because you are accessing things that other people would use against you. Part of being able to access them conveniently is storing things like bookmarks and passwords and programs settings, so you decide to make a persistent volume. Tails then has you set a password, great, all the computers in the world wont be able to decrypt that password, its practically a paragraph.

So now you have your tails usbkey with your encrypted persistence volume, maybe a truecrypt container with a hidden volume just in case anyone holds a gun to your head, but backup a second, why would anyone hold a gun to your head to decrypt a container if they didnt have access to your tails system to see that you had a container in the first place. Hell, at that point they can see a whole lot than just a container, they can see all your bookmarks and whatnot.

How did they get to that point? Well, they found your tails usb key, which was COMPLETELY UNENCRYPTED, and upon booting it was requested to INSERT YOUR PERSISTENCE PASSWORD. Wow, and just like that they know you got something to hide, now they hold a gun to your head, now you're fucked. 

So how could we have avoided that? Well, drop the whole BS persistence password nonsense and encrypt the entire USB with Pre-Boot Authentication (which is supported by dm-crypt/luks), now they see nothing but random garbage when they mount it and (if luk's PBA was designed/configured intelligently enough not to include a "insert password here" screen) they will see nothing when booting. 

To Tails, please consider that alot of your users need to protect themselves against violent criminals who only need one reason to attack them, and alot of your users need to protect themselves against corrupt governments who would throw them in jail for not divulging a key (required in the EU and abroad, still uncertain in the US). 

If its too much to ask to integrate this into tails, could you offer a help page detailing how one would do this? As of now i cannot find any sort of plausible deniability (hidden system encryption) that exists for linux except for http://cube.dyndns.org/~rsnel/scubed/ which seems to be an unsupported hack. The best chance we have at protecting ourselves against rubber hose attacks is to hide the fact we have something to hide, otherwise theres no point in having encryption at all. 
