Was trying to build a Tails CD to learn how to customize it, but am running into some issues right off the bat. Hope someone can help figure this out.

I am running a 32-bit Ubuntu 12.0.4 VM inside VirtualBox (v4.1.20) on a 64-bit Windows 7 Ultimate host. Am trying to build Tails from the Ubuntu VM.
  
Following the instructions on the [build](https://tails.boum.org/contribute/build/) page, I installed vagrant rake and virtualbox, cloned the git repository and issued the rake build command.

Things appear to be going fine till I see this warning about a version mismatch between the VBox Guest Additions installed on the basebox and the Virtual Box version. The build proceeds and finally fails when attempting to start the 

    [default] Importing base box 'tails'...
    [default] The guest additions on this VM do not match the install version of VirtualBox! This may cause things such as forwarded ports, shared folders, and more to not work properly. If any of those things fail on this machine, please update the guest additions and repackage the box.

    Guest Additions Version: 4.0.10
    VirtualBox Version: 4.1.12
    [default] Matching MAC address for NAT networking...
    [default] Clearing any previously set forwarded ports...
    [default] Forwarding ports...
    [default] -- 22 => 2222 (adapter 1)
    [default] Creating shared folders metadata...
    [default] Clearing any previously set network interfaces...
    [default] Running any VM customizations...
    [default] Booting VM...
    [default] Waiting for VM to boot. This can take a few minutes.
    [default] Failed to connect to VM!
    rake aborted!
    Failed to connect to VM via SSH. Please verify the VM successfully booted by looking at the VirtualBox GUI.

The VBox logs show this at the end:

    00:00:01.748 ERROR [COM]: aRC=NS_ERROR_FAILURE (0x80004005) aIID={1968b7d3-e3bf-4ceb-99e0-cb7c913317bb} aComponent={Console} aText={VT-x is not available. (VERR_VMX_NO_VMX)}, preserve=false
    00:00:01.779 Power up failed (vrc=VERR_VMX_NO_VMX, rc=NS_ERROR_FAILURE (0X80004005))

Any idea how to solve this issue? Or is the issue that the Ubuntu VM I am building Tails in, cannot provide any hardware virtualization to the guest tails box? (The Ubuntu VM is configured to take advantage of the hardware virtualization capabilities of the host system (My CPU, an Intel Core 2 Quad Q9450 - does support hardware virtualization).

Thanks for any help you can provide.
