Is it possible to use Tails, and Tor, in a Virtual Machine (virtual Operating System) and retain/remain anonymous?  I'm trying to find out if I boot from, say a clean Windows (no programs installed other than anti-virus & firewall), to a (Linux?) virtual machine using Tor to access the internet - - would I remain & retain anonymous & be *secure* from malicious hackers?  OR would using Windows as my "host" OS leave me vulnerable?

What I want is to not have to worry about having to reinstall Windows every time it is "hacked" by trojans, viri, etcetera. I've had that problem since I've started using Windows XP of getting infected or otherwise "breaking" the OS; I'd end up having to re-install the OS and start all over!  Since MS started requiring PID's to "legally" install & use the OS, leaving their users only so many installations before requiring to purchase a new PID / copy of their OS, that leaves the user (the one who actually purchased their OS) SCREWED if they have to re-install the OS more than that many times (three or four times?)!

I know I SHOULD use Linux and I have, only to go back to using Windows for the games and other programs that REQUIRE Windows! The *main* reason I've gone back to Windows recently is my USB network adapter isn't among those that Linux has built-in drivers for (Linksys RangePlus WUSB100 ver2.0)...yes, I *could* just buy another one that *is* but right now I cannot afford to as I'm making car payments & auto insurance, rent, groceries, gas, etcetera.... I know I could use ndiswrapper but that particular adapter "Not much info except that it doesn't work" (quoted from SourceForge.net, ndiswrapper's wiki)!  Yes, I know I can try using Windows driver but it is a total pain in the butt! :(
