i pulled this qoute off liberte linux webpage and it disturbed me a bit, can tails please make a comeback from this qoute??and also what do you think about this liberte linux distro??it seems superior on all fronts, it even has encrypted persistance and a LUKS password is required at bootup...thanks


"""""""One of the most notable Liberté Linux design differences from PELD is the issue of explicit vs. transparent proxying of network connections of applications. In Tails, any application that creates a network connection is transparently routed through Tor (including DNS requests). This approach to Torification of network activity is fundamentally flawed, because applications' connections (which are subsequently redirected to Tor service by firewall rules) are bound to the external network adapter interface, and the applications are therefore automatically aware of the computer's IP address — which is a property of the connection. As a result, there is explicit reliance on the application not inadvertently leaking this address to its communication peer due to a bug, a wrongly implemented feature, or a design flaw. Depending on the network configuration, this IP address can be a LAN address behind a NAT, or a globally identifying address assigned by the ISP. In addition, many applications leak unnecessary DNS requests that, too, are automatically routed through Tor in this approach.

Liberté avoids this serious design flaw by explicitly configuring selected applications and services to use Tor via its local proxy (where access to the proxy is additionally vetted), thus forcing the applications to create connections to the proxy on the loopback interface (localhost). An inadvertently leaked IP address does not pose a problem with this approach. The only exception to this in Liberté is I2P, whose peer connections are transparently routed via Tor, because I2P does not support using proxies for this purpose, and because other methods (like dynamic library socksification) fail. Since I2P communication is visible to Tor exit nodes, this might pose a problem — however, I2P has been verified to not leak the system's IP address when used in hidden mode. """""""""""""
