Yesterday, I successfully burned a TAILS' ISO image onto a DVD-R. And then I inserted the DVD-R disc into my computer so that I can run the TAILS' ISO image in a VMWare Virtual Machine. I am currently using Windows 7 Home Edition, so I emulated Windows 7 in my VM. Unfortunately, when I tried to boot my VM with the Tails ISO image the following error appeared (see the screenshot in the attachment file below):

"The virtual machine window is optimized to work in 32 bit color mode but the virtual display is currently set to 24 bit.

Please open the display properties dialog of the guest OS and select a 32 bit color mode, if it is available, for best possible performance of the virtual video subsystem.

Note: Some operating systems, like OS/2, may actually work in 32 bit mode but report it as 24 bit (16 million colors). You may try to select a different color mode to see if this message disappears or you can simply disable the message now if you are sure the required color mode (32 bit) is not avilable in the guest OS"

So my million dollar questions are this:

How do I adjust the settings of my guest OS (which is Windows 7 Home Edition) so that it is in 32-bit color mode? Or how do I adjust the Virtual Machine so that it uses the same color mode as my host OS? More specifically, how would I solve this problem? Should I create a new virtual machine with a different operating system in mind (like Windows XP, Vista, and etc)? Or should I adjust the settings described in that message so that my TAILs ISO Image can be successfully displayed on my Virtual Machine? More importantly how should I adjust my host OS's settings so that they correspond to the settings required by this VM?

I would greatly appreciate help from you guys since I am not a computer expert.
