In [another thread in this forum](https://tails.boum.org/forum/Checksums_for_0.14_RC2-_Let__39__s_Compare/), I had asked, 

>Why start the GNU/Linux section with detailed, illustrated instructions for using that "seahorse plugin" thing, only to then go on and note that it's development has been discontinued?

To which "Tails" replied,

>1.) Because Debian Squeeze is still shipping seahorse-plugins.

>2.) Because Tails is based on Squeeze and also still ships seahorse-plugins.

>3.) Because that page was written before we discovered it was discontinued.

>Yes, the situation is clearly suboptimal, thanks to Gnome developers. So now that Ubuntu and Fedora do not have the plugins anymore, everyone should drop the graphical interface, even if it works nicely in Tails? These are hard tradeoffs. Patches welcome, if you have good ideas.

I would now like to respond as follows.

1.) I appreciate the points made by "Tails" and I apologize if I came across as a bit harsh or brusque in my previous post.

2.) I would nonetheless suggest, at the very least, that the instructions in question be re-worked so that the notification that `seahorse-plugins` has been discontinued, etc. be placed at the very *beginning*. 

This will spare people the unnecessary trouble and use of bandwidth of updating apt and trying to install seahorse-plugins for naught. (As we see an example of comment 19)

3.) Now I would like to address the question of whether the instructions that involve `seahorse-plugins` should altogether be placed *first*, *before* the instructions for using the command line to verify the ISO.
  
I suppose this current ordering of the page would make sense if the authors were working under the assumption or premise that the majority of people for whom the instructions for verifying the Tails ISO is targeted at would be using *Tails* or *Debian Squeeze* to do so.   

But unless there is actual evidence to support such an assumption, I would seriously question it.

This is because I would think that most of the people for whom such step-by-step instructions for verifying a new Tails ISO are necessary would not be using an already verified and burned Tails for the task, and certainly not *any* "pure" version of Debian itself (as opposed to one of the numerous more "user-friendly" spin-offs). Rather, I would think that such relative "newbs" are far more likely to be using the likes of Ubuntu, Mint or Mageia.  
