RE: https://lists.torproject.org/pipermail/tor-talk/2012-August/025349.html

How can I block [traffic to] this domain in Tails and any other weather related url checking/updating services used by the weather area in the clock applet/location area?

From the post:

"When I set the location in the clock/location settings, I notice the following errors in .xsession-errors:

(gnome-panel:####): GWeather-WARNING **: Failed to get METAR data: 504 Connect to weather.noaa.gov:80 failed: Connection refused.

When I try to remove GWeather from the system, it throws up several important dependencies so I cancel the removal.

When I rename the libgweather.so* files to something else it breaks the libclock-applet.

I don't want my system trying to fetch weather information, especially not from a ** GOVernment site! **

Because of this stupid GWeather bug, this remains open until I shutdown:

127.0.0.1:8118 CLOSE_WAIT ####/gnome-panel

The failures above eventually vanish when I check my location at a later date, when clicking the clock applet, it shows the weather for my area which I specified after boot!

If I unselect showing the
weather it grabs it anyway! And how often does it update the weather? Only when I click on it
or at various timed or random intervals? I'm not using the regular weather applet which must
be manually added to the panel, this is under the clock applet/location area.

How may I safely disable GWeather without killing the clock applet? I need to enter my location
when running from a LiveCD (such as Tails, I asked on their message board but no one responded)
so the time is up to date, enough for Tor to work. Otherwise if I don't enter the correct location
Tor views my system time as invalid and halts with errors.

I believe this is a heavy erosion of privacy."
