Is it really necessary to restart Tails or is there a way to make the "new identity" functions work?

Quote from the documentation <https://tails.boum.org/doc/about/warning/index.en.html#index8h1>
>Vidalia's "New Identity" button forces Tor to use new circuits but only for new connections: existing connections might stay open. Plus, apart from the Tor circuits, other kind of information can reveal your past activities, for example the cookies stored by your browser. So this feature of Vidalia is not a solution to really separate contextual identities. Shutdown and restart Tails instead.

There are two different "new identity" functions: one is from Vidalia in the taskbar and one is from Torbutton in the browser window. I tested the Torbutton "new identity" with cookie preferences set to keep nonsession cookies. It deleted nonsession cookies. I know there are many other storage places. For example, HTML5 storage is used by the "evercookie" but I would expect that Tails has defenses for these.  

[[Comment by Tails|/forum/new_IP_identity__63__/#comment-d6f8801feae07eca1b6bd63439268d2a]]:
>using the browser's button's "new identity" feature will give you a "new" IP address, but you may still get the old one due to cacheing. To bypass the cache and really make sure the page is fetched again (which will reveal the new IP address) you must press Ctrl + F5

You mean you do **not** get the old IP address, but check.torproject.org fails to show you your new IP because you got a cached page?

If you are only using the web browser, and you use Torbutton to get a new identity, who would be able to see that you are using the same Tails session? How could they know?
