I am finally fed up with Tails for the following reasons:

 I don't know how to operate linux kinda operating system because everyone worldwide is comfortable using MS Windows.

2. I can't understand the commands and the Tails Admins have to waste a lot of time in replying to our queries because such operating systems are alien to us.

3. World's most of the creative projects have originated from linux developers but why haven't they been able to simply everything like Microsoft Windows?
 
4.It puts a lot of strain to our eyes because the websites don't appear using same fonts as we see while using browsers in windows.

Today i learnt the persistent mode, but I could not make my browser addons persistent. I have to install all-in-one addon package (containing 32 addons) and bookmarks everytime.

********************************
I suggest you:
1. Convert the interface of linux/tails to that of Windows.

 OR

1.In place of persistence system as you have developed now, it would be better if you start using persistence of whole computer by protecting it like truecrypt. I mean, PASSWORD-1 will oepn fresh copy of TAils (without persistence) and PASSWORD-2 will open hidden/persistent edition of our TAILS.
*****************************
Everyone is not American and you should not consider everyone know-it-all kind of person. In most of the corrupt countries where TAILS is used, people are computer literate just to type matter, and send mails. 

TAILS is a boon for such people and they have done a wonderful job till date.

According to me, the effort should be made to change the whole interface of linux into Windows and then share the source code that you already do to develop it.

The commands of linux are quite horrible to see :(
I am now 35 years of age and can't afford to learn all these things in this middle age. Similarly many people have switched over to VPNs which are unsafe
