Regarding the secure wiping of *flash* media, the page at

https://tails.boum.org/doc/encryption_and_privacy/secure_deletion/index.en.html

states:

>The methods described below will not work as expected on USB sticks and solid-state drives.

>The existing hard drive-oriented techniques for secure deletion of files are not effective.
>Overwriting twice the **available diskspace** is usually, but not always, sufficient to securely clean the drive.

And, then a little further down on the page, we find the following:

>[...]it is also possible to securely clean **all the *free* space on the disk**.

>This is the recommended method, in most cases, for securely deleting data from a USB stick or from a solid-state drive, >where securely deleting individual files do not work as expected.

What the paper(1) quoted and linked-to on The Wikipedia(2) page linked-to in this TAILS document *actually* says is:

>overwriting the **entire visible address space** of an SSD twice is usually, but not always, sufficient to sanitize the drive.  
(emphasis mine- Anon)

"entire visible address" is *certainly* not the same as the "all the free space on the disk" that is found in the *second* part of the TAILS doc quoted above. 

Regarding the term, "the available diskspace", used in the *first* TAILS quote, it is not at all clear to me just what it was intended to mean. It seems entirely plausible to me that "the available diskspace" could simply be another way of saying, "all the *free* space on the disk". If that is the case, it would be consistent with the second quote in the TAILS doc, but would obviously be inaccurate according to the cited paper. 

Prior to the release of said paper, it was commonly thought that merely wiping the *free* space of a flash drive was sufficient to ensure that all of the deleted data would really be gone. That assumption/belief/assertion/whatever you want to call it, however, was turned over on its head by the findings of the aforementioned/afore-cited/afore-quoted paper.      

Citations:
(1) http://www.usenix.org/events/fast11/tech/full_papers/Wei.pdf
(2) https://secure.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/wiki/Secure_file_deletion#Data_on_solid-state_drives
