* What do the experts think about servers which combine many roles (Guard, Exit, Fast, Stable) and which *also* host non-tor services such as webmail server, or other well-known services popular among Debian stable users which automatically communicate with Debian-based systems via non-torified channels?  That seems like a potentially bad idea.  Does it affect TBB on Debian stable more than Tails?

* How bad is it if tor starts using a local port where a running service is already communicating?  Isn't that not supposed to happen?

* What do the experts think about Tor circuits crossing national boundaries?  If your country has few nodes, or only state-controlled nodes, crossing boundaries seems to be a good idea.  Is there any legitimate reason why Tor would suddenly give only circuits which do not cross boundaries?  Is Tails better than TBB on Debian stable with respect to building circuits?

* One of the Akamai Tor nodes (Fast/Directory/Guard/Exit/Stable Server), the one named AkamaiTor4, appears to be unique among all Tor nodes in that it has an A2 (satellite provider) IP address.  What does that mean, precisely?  That all packets routed through this server go through a US-controlled satellite link?  What are the privacy implications?  (Is this our direct line to Sugar Grove?)

There are many other questions I wish I could ask.

I wish Tor developers would use something like whisperback for anonymous bug reports.  Tor-talk is unusable for most of us, for so many reasons.
