I present a workaround for downloading files larger than 64 MiB. The ultimate limit will be the amount of free RAM your computer has. 

The problem is described in this (at the time pending) bug report: 

[impossible to download files bigger than 64M with Iceweasel](https://tails.boum.org/bugs/impossible_to_download_files_bigger_than_64M_with_Iceweasel/) ([https://tails.boum.org/bugs/impossible_to_download_files_bigger_than_64M_with_Iceweasel/](https://tails.boum.org/bugs/impossible_to_download_files_bigger_than_64M_with_Iceweasel/)). 


The bug submitter wrote: 
>The download stalls at 64MB. If I disable Polipo's chunkHighMark, the download stalls at this setting's default value (24M).

The workaround is to instead change the value for *chunkHighMark* to something larger than the file download size. The file to edit is */etc/polipo/config*. Look for the section:

	### Memory
	### ******
	
	# Uncomment this if you want Polipo to use a 	ridiculously small amount
	# of memory (a hundred C-64 worth or so):
	
	# chunkHighMark = 819200
	# objectHighMark = 128
	
	# Uncomment this if you've got plenty of memory:
	
	# chunkHighMark = 50331648
	# objectHighMark = 16384
	
	chunkHighMark = 67108864

67,108,864 is 64 × 1,024 × 1,024, or 64 MiB (actually :p).

A check of the TAILS ISO directory at [http://dl.amnesia.boum.org/tails/stable/tails-i386-0.9/](http://dl.amnesia.boum.org/tails/stable/tails-i386-0.9/) shows the TAILS 0.9 ISO download size will be 573.0MB. 

Check how much RAM is free in TAILS: 

	amnesia@amnesia:~$ df /
	Filesystem           1K-blocks      Used Available Use% Mounted on
	aufs                   1557192    504972   1052220  33% /
	
Here it's 1,052,220 1,024 Byte blocks, or a tad over one Gigabyte. 

I suspect we should take care not to use up all the free RAM if we want to avoid system problems, so set *chunkHighMark* to a little more than the file download size. 

I set *chunkHighMark* to 700,000,000 - enough for most CD ISOs - using *vim*: 

	amnesia@amnesia:~$ sudo vim /etc/polipo/config

and setting 

	chunkHighMark = 700000000

The bug submitter also wrote: 
>The really annoying thing about this bug is that it prevents downloading Tails images from Tails itself :/

I succeeded in downloading TAILS 0.9 using TAILS 0.8.1 by doing this. No need to give yourself away again! ;)

I can only think of automating this if the TAILS producers know a way to set *chunkHighMark* in Polipo's *config* file on the fly after reading how much RAM the root filesystem has free. 

-- Straggler.
