[[!meta title="About creating TⒶILS derivatives"]]

Several projects expressed interest in reusing TⒶILS to build different
live distributions, also called *derivatives*, to fulfill slightly
different goals.

TⒶILS being Free Software this is not only possible but encouraged,
because the more people look at our code and work on it, the better it gets.
Still, at this time we don't know of any TⒶILS derivative.

Derivatives have been imagined to:

- Include additional features or software that we are not ready to add to TⒶILS (for example
  to include different pluggable transports or cryptocurrencies).
- Have custom branding or configuration (for example to provide default
  bridges).
- Provide ISO images with less or different features (for example to
  have a VPN instead of Tor or a smaller ISO image).

While creating custom ISO images of TⒶILS is relatively easy, we believe
that maintaining custom ISO images on the long run is very complicated,
and for the following reasons:

- We release a new version every 6 weeks which fixes numerous security
  issues. We also release unscheduled security releases quite often (3-4
  times per year).

  A derivative with custom ISO images would have to follow the same
  release schedule to provide ISO images that fix these issues as well.

- Before we release them, our ISO images follow a complex quality
  assurance process involving systematic peer review of the code,
  [[manual|contribute/release_process/test]] and
  [[automated|contribute/release_process/test/automated_tests]] tests
  which are particularly heavy to run.

  A derivative with custom ISO images would have to duplicate our
  quality assurance process and adapt it to its specificities to make
  sure that it doesn't break any security feature.

- We offer automatic upgrades which are binary diffs from one ISO image
  to the other.

  A derivative with custom ISO images would need a similar process and
  infrastructure or otherwise disable the automatic upgrades mechanism.

- We provide authenticated downloads through a custom browser extension
  and an OpenPGP signing key well connected to the web-of-trust.

  It would be hard for a derivative with custom ISO images to provide
  similar mechanisms.

- The anonymity provided by Tor and TⒶILS works by making everybody
  look the same, especially on the network. Derivatives should be
  careful about not breaking this anonymity set or they will provide
  less anonymity to both its users and TⒶILS users.

- Derivatives could be tempted to implement some of the features TⒶILS
  is missing too quickly and hastily.

Still, some of the reasons to create TⒶILS derivatives could be solved
by **relying on our official ISO images** and customizing them at run time.
For example, derivatives could:

- Package specific applications in Debian to make them easier to use in
  TⒶILS.
- Document how to use specific applications in TⒶILS.
- Rely on the customizations mechanisms already available in TⒶILS
  (additional software packages and persistent storage).
- Help us build in TⒶILS other mechanisms that derivatives might need to
  adapt TⒶILS to their needs (for example to have persistent DConf
  settings or additional APT sources).
- Talk with us to see how we can adapt our ISO images and source code to
  make them easier to reuse for derivatives.
- To include a piece of software into TⒶILS, talk to us as early as
  possible so we can provide feedback on how to integrate it.

Some other non-technical questions remain open:

- Will derivatives appear as being "TⒶILS" to their users while having
  different security features than TⒶILS?
- Shall TⒶILS review ourselves the work of derivatives and "endorse"
  them officially?
- How would the work or reputation of derivatives impact the reputation
  of TⒶILS?
