[[!meta title="Contributors meetings"]]

Each month a contributors meeting is organized. It currently happens
on **third day** of the month on [[#tails-dev|contribute/chat]] at
7pm UTC (9pm CEST)**. Every Tails contributor is welcome to attend.

<div class="note">

<p> As OFTC is blocking Tor lately, we temporarily gather in `#tails-dev`
on `irc.indymedia.org` instead of `irc.oftc.net`.</p>

</div>

A proposed agenda is sent in advance on <tails-dev@boum.org>.
To propose and prepare other discussion topics, raise them as answers to
this announcement on <tails-dev@boum.org>, so that others can help prepare the
discussion as well.

If you want to get involved but don't know yet how, please introduce
yourself during the meeting, and be sure to tell us what you are
interested in.

The meeting might not be the most adequate time and place to properly
introduce newcomers to the development process, but at least it should
be a fine place to know each others, and schedule a better
suited event.

# Meeting minutes

[[!map pages="contribute/meetings/*"]]
